---
layout: post
title: "The Only Thing That Provably Exists"
tags: []
categories: [philosophy]
---

If you allow me, I want to demonstrate how there is only one thing that
provably exists.

That is a big claim, you might say. There is a multitude of things. Just look
around. Trees, rivers, people going about their day, so many non-living
objects, countless grains of sand. Are you mad, you ask.

I hope I am not. When you look around, you do see a multitude. Things with
clear boundaries. But notice that statement: "When *you* look around, *you* do
*see* a multitude". If I doubt your claim that there is a multitude, you will
try to point me towards it. Eventually hoping that *I see* it too.

The only objective way to prove something is to provide hard, objective
evidence for it. But there is a catch. There is always an implicit requirement
for a subject who needs convincing, and is eventually convinced.

Most people accept claims on the basis of authority. The scientific community
for a particular area may ask the hard questions for them, collect data, reach
a consensus, and declare that a particular theory is the best one they have for
now.

This means that much of what you believe to be true or proven rests on shaky
ground. Scientific consensus changes with time, because new data begets new
theories.

There are also things you believe because of your own subjective experience.
You might say that most plants are green. You are sure about this because,
throughout your life, you have always seen most plants appear of that colour,
and someone told you very early on that the colour is called green.

As you grew up, you heard the more rigourous explanations that matched your
experience. For example, that light is reflected off plants in such a way that
most frequencies are absorbed and the green frequency is not, due to the
chlorophyll in the leaves. But I want to stress that your subjective experience
of the greenness of leaves is the primary evidence. Knowing about chlorophyll
did not change the colour of the leaf, it just added a new label to it.

First there was light in your perception. Much later came the theory of light,
which says that light is an electromagnetic wave, travels into your eyes, hits
the retina, and is converted by various cells into electrical signals that lead
to your perception of green.

I am not saying this to dismiss scientific theories, which are indeed very
useful if you want to manipulate this seeming multitude. But I am trying to
point to the primacy of subjectivity, which is implicitly presupposed by all
objective or scientific theories of reality. Everything relies on *you*, the
perceiver and the believer.

In a dream too you experience a multitude. The dreaming mind even has all the
necessary beliefs to explain away the multitude that you perceive in the dream.
Even if we later laugh at the absurdity or inconsistency of it once we wake up.

If I am skeptical enough, I can deny the reality of all experiences in a
similar way. What if I am dreaming right now? What if I am a [brain in a
vat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brain_in_a_vat)? I have no way to prove that
what I perceive has some real, physical existence. But there is one thing that
neither I nor you nor anyone else can deny. That is our own existence. There is
something that is doing the perceiving. Something that is present, that
illuminates all other experiences. Cogito, ergo sum.

You may now say that there must also be a second thing, an object to be
perceived. I then ask you a simple question. Where and how do you draw the line
between the multitude of your experiences and the experiencer who has them? For
the curious, this is where [Sankhya](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samkhya)
ends and [Advaita](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advaita_Vedanta) begins.

Everything you have ever experienced has been inside your awareness. You cannot
step outside of it. Let us take the example of dreaming again. In your dream
you see a multitude, but you wake up and realize it was all inside your mind.
All the people, the grains of sand, the smells and sounds. All generated by
*one* mind. Some neuroscience student may put an EEG on your head, and tell
you that your brain was waving in a pattern that was different from how it
waves when you're awake. But that is just chlorophyll to the green.

After waking up from the dream, you still try to find explanations and words.
Trying to find an answer within the multitude. But the whole dream was in *your
mind*. In *you*. For that is the only thing that provably exists.

There is no second. Only a single flame. Self effulgent. Ceaselessly
illuminating. Self-reflecting. Vibrating. An ocean of infinite awareness, that
trembles with energy and casts thousands of ripples that you count and name.
You call them many. But there is only water. Other times the ocean falls
silent. You try to count the ripples and come up empty. You say there is
nothing. But there is only still water. Kinetic turned into potential.

So I say again: only one thing can be proven to exist. Call it the Self or the
Tao. Call it God or call it Him. Call it Her or call it That.

And That is You.
