---
layout: post
title: "Difference between Truth (Sat) vs truth (Satya)"
tags: []
categories: [spirituality]
---

I've often been confused when reading religious or spiritual texts that talk
about Truth (with a capital T). What do they mean by it, and why the strange
capitalization? The confusion usually arises because what these texts are
pointing to is often conflated (due to poor translations) with the general,
everyday use of the word "truth."

In daily life we use “truth” mainly in an ethical or moral sense: not telling
lies, describing things as they are, being true to your nature by speaking your
mind instead of holding back, and so on.

A good way to understand the difference is to look at how these words are used
in Sanskrit (and derived languages). There is *Satya* (सत्य) or *Sach* (सच),
used in day-to-day life for the general, “moral” sense of the word. And then
there is *Sat* (सत्), found mostly in scriptures, pointing to the grander Truth
(with a capital T), which is more metaphysical or ontological in nature.

To understand the distinction, we can first look at the usage of these terms in
different scriptures. The Sikhi [Mūl Mantar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mul_Mantar)
is a great example, as it uses both of these variations.

The first usage is often translated as:

### `ikk ōaṅkār sat-nām`

→ There is one [Om](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Om), and Its name is *Sat*
(Truth / Existence / Reality).

Later in the same mantra we have:

### `ād sach, jugād sach, hai bhī sach`

→ True (*sach*) since the beginning, true through the ages (*yugās*), and still
true now.

Similarly, in [Vedanta](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vedanta), the
all-pervading ultimate reality known as
[Brahman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brahman) is described as
[**Sat-chit-ānanda**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saccid%C4%81nanda).

In both these cases, *Sat* means **existence** or **being**, which is the base
of reality. But what do we mean by the “base of reality”? For example, a wave
depends on water for its existence. Without water, there is nothing to wave.
So we say water is the base of the wave’s reality. Similarly, every single
thing in the universe (right down to elementary particles and forces) depends
on this field of reality/existence itself.

I am **not** saying that you must imagine a second entity, apart from the object
that exists, called *Sat*, which allows (in its infinite kindness) for that
object to exist. That would be foolish—just as it would be to say that water is
a second thing separate from the wave, or that gold is something separate from
a gold necklace.

Just as a wave is simply water waving—a verb form of water—any elementary
particle is existence or *Sat* itself, “vibing” in a way that causes it to
interact as an elementary particle with other parts of this same *Sat*, and so
on. And according to both the Mūl Mantar and Advaita Vedanta, this reality is
one, or non-dual. Nothing exists separate from existence itself. Nothing *is*
outside of the underlying *is*-ness.

Finally, we can also look at the etymology of these ancient Proto-Indo-European
sounds. From the root of
[*Sat*](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D) is derived
[*Satya*](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%AF#Sanskrit).
In my limited understanding, *Satya* means “that which is based in *Sat*,” i.e.,
based in reality. Hence, if someone speaks something grounded in reality, we
call it *Satya*, and lies are *Asatya*. But when we point to the underlying
nature of reality itself, the word we use is *Sat*.
