--- 
layout: post
title: "Discrete Fourier Transform"
tags: [gsoc, hacking, linux, open source] 
--- 

## Introduction

The Discrete Fourier Transform, takes in a sequence of N complex numbers $$x_0, x_1, \dots, x_{N-1}$$ and converts them to another sequence,
let's say $$X_0, X_1, \dots, X_{N-1}$$.

There is also something called inverse-DFT or IDFT, which as the name implies, undoes the DFT.
This whole process of conversion and de-conversion is achieved using the following equation pair.

**DFT**: $$ X_k = \frac{1}{\sqrt{N}} \sum_{n=0}^{N-1} x_n \cdot e^{-j 2 \pi k n / N} $$

**IDFT**: $$ x_n = \frac{1}{\sqrt{N}} \sum_{k=0}^{N-1} X_k \cdot e^{j 2 \pi k n / N} $$

Now this may look daunting. And this whole process certainly raised quite a few questions in my head the first time I saw it.  Why are we doing it? Why complex exponentials? And most importantly, why do these pair of equations work?

## Motivation

If you're familiar with music you would know that different notes sound different because of pitch. Some sound shrill, some sound low and bassy. This difference is due to the *frequency* of the wave produced when you sing or play the note.

Each note is a vibration in the air, a to-and-fro motion. And the ones that vibrate faster sound shrill, the ones that vibrate slower sound bassy.

You can draw the wave, the to-and-fro intensity of air pressure vs time, on a graph using a sine-like wave. If the wave has small period, it has high-frequency, ie high pitch. And a larger period means low pitch.

$$ \textrm{Pressure density} = s(t) = A \cdot \sin(2 \pi f t) $$

Here $$f$$ is the so called frequency of the wave. If $$f = 440Hz$$, ie the to-and-fro motion happens $$440$$ times in a second, we get the $$A4$$ note.

Now suppose you played two or three notes together, like in a chord. And you recorded that on a computer.

A computer can't record a continous wave of always-changing intensities, because there are infinite points on a continuous line. So it takes samples of the wave a fuckton number of times in a second. Like take a sample at $$1/1000$$th of a second, then at $$2/1000$$th and so on.

Doing this, you get a string of *discrete* numbers which represent the wave's intensity at evenly spaced points of time. That is a sequence like: 

$$ x_0, x_1, \dots, x_{N-1} $$

Here each $$x_i$$ represents the $$i$$th sample. If I tell you $$i = 1001$$, and my sampling rate was $$f_s = 1000$$ samples in each second. You can calculate the time this sample corresponds to. It will be the amplitude of the wave at $$t = i/f_s = 1.001s$$.

$$ x_i = s(i/f_s) $$

You've now got the sound signal of the chord as a list of numbers in your computer and you want to somehow figure out what notes were played in the chord, and with what intensites. How would you go about it?

If you played two notes of frequencies: $$f_1$$ and $$f_2$$. The continuous wave in the air would be something like:
$$ s(t) = A \cdot \sin(2 \pi f_1 t) + B \cdot \sin(2 \pi f_2 t) $$

The string of numbers you'll get will be given by:
$$ x_n = A \cdot \sin(\frac{2 \pi f_1 n}{f_s}) + B \cdot \sin(\frac{2 \pi f_2 n}{f_s}) $$

Our aim here is to find a magical method, which will take in the sequence of $$x_i$$ and give us information about each pitch in the wave:
$$ f_1: A\ units,\ f_2: B\ units, \textrm{other frequencies}: 0\ units $$

Here too we encounter a hurdle. The possible frequencies between suppose $$1Hz$$ and $$2Hz$$ are infinite, i.e. frequencies are also continuous. But our sad little computer needs to deal with non-infinite precision, i.e. discrete stuff.

Hence we reduce our problem from finding intensities of all possible frequencies, to just evenly spaced discrete frequencies. (NB: mathematically, finding it for all frequencies is possible for a discrete-time sequence. It is called, surprise, 
[Discrete-Time Fourier Transform or DTFT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discrete-time_Fourier_transform))

Our discrete indices $$k = 0, k = 1, \dots, k = N-1$$ correspond to the continous frequency $$f$$ by the given formula:
$$ f = \frac{k \cdot f_s}{N} $$

It's weird how $$f_s$$ and $$N$$ popped up here, isn't it? I'll hopefully cover it in another article, as it would be a major digression here.
For now, think of $$k$$ as just placeholders for equally spaced frequencies, and you can convert it back and forth using the formula given above.

Let's apply this $$f$$ to $$k$$ shiz on our chord's wave equation. Assume the $$f_1$$ and $$f_2$$ we picked, got (luckily) sampled as some $$k_1$$ and $$k_2$$. Thus the chord wave in our computer can also be written as:
$$ x_n = A \cdot \sin(\frac{2 \pi k_1 n}{N}) + B \cdot \sin(\frac{2 \pi k_2 n}{N}) $$

Now we want to convert this sequence of $$x_n$$ to a sequence of $$X_k$$, such that:
$$ X_{k_1} = A, X_{k_2} = B, \textrm{ rest } X_k = 0 $$

Suppose we know the $$X_k$$ for an unknown sound signal's samples. We can figure out the samples by adding the sinusoids of the $$X_k$$ frequencies together.
As an exercise put the $$X_k$$ values for our $$2$$-note chord here to get back the original sound signal.
$$ x_n = \sum_{k=0}^{N-1} X_k \cdot \sin(\frac{2 \pi k n}{N}) $$

If you're still awake and alert you might notice how this looks eerily similar to the **IDFT** equation in the introduction. The only difference is the scary complex exponential, and the constant $$1/\sqrt{N}$$ factor.

